---
layout: post
title: Prosopagnosia
date: 2016-08-11
---

I spent the summer at RPI, working part time for Rensselaer Conference Services while I worked on RPI Tours, this website, and a stage production of *The Uninvited*. But this isn't about any of those things, besides the fact that I was residing on RPI's campus, and enjoying the internet connection. I recently went home (yesterday in fact), which I'm happy about because I get to see my parents and brother again. But, the internet at my home is not very great. It isn't uncommon that when we're all in the living room watching Netflix, we'll have to sit through some buffering a few mintues after someone whips out their phone or computer (especially when it's Facebook related, what a network hog). Anyway, I hope you get the idea. 

Today on Reddit there was another entry into the /r/Science Science AMA Series, where researchers hop on to answer questions from reddit users about what their research is, how they conduct it, or anything else they want. [Today's AMA](https://www.reddit.com/r/science/comments/4x7o9u/science_ama_series_hi_reddit_im_dr_ashok_jansari/) was conducted by Dr. Ashok Jansari, a neuropsychologist at Goldsmiths, University of London. He is researching people with prosopagnosia, or face blindness, and people who are 'super recognisers', essentially the opposite of prosopagnosia, they can recognize people even after a fleeting glance at them. This caught my eye on my front page because I actually do have a fairly good ability to recognize people, and usually can even remember the first time I met someone. Anyway, in the AMA's description he provided a link to their online test, the results of which will go into their database and will help shape the conclusions they draw. That's what I wrote this post to get to, the rest of that guff up there is just exposition.

Intrigued, I clicked on their link and it brought me to a disclaimer page about how they won't release any of the information they asked me to give them, besides the results I get. I agreed and the test began. It was fairly simple, just look at this face for 5 seconds, then it would give me three options and I had to choose the face I looked at. Repeat that for 5 more faces, and then have a series of questions asking me to identify one of the 6 faces I just looked at out of a selection of three, with the fake two faces resembling at least mildly the actual face I saw. This was all going fine, and I thought I was doing fairly well until the last section. It gave me 6 faces, all in a single image, I could look for 20 seconds, and then it would go ahead with asking me which face I recognized from a group of three again for another 10 or so questions. The problem I faced with this was with my internet more than identifying faces it felt like.

When the page posed me the task of memorizing 6 faces in the span of 20 seconds, there was no image. Confused, I waited for maybe a "next" button to appear or something so I could see the 6 faces, before a thin sliver of a white image appeared on the screen, and I realized the image was just a bit too much for my internet (let it be known my mother was also watching nature documentaries starring David Attenborough on YouTube at the time). When the image finally loaded, I started staring down the faces so I'd be able to recognize them later, but in what felt like maybe 8 or 10 seconds, the screen changed to asking me about which faces I saw. I stumbled my way through those questions and got my results soon after. 

I was mildly annoyed. They had not taken into consideration people who may not have the luxury of reliable or strong internet, such as myself. I realize I am probably in the minority here by being part of the can't-load-an-image-cause-youtube club, but I think it is still an issue any researcher who is going to use the internet as a method of data collection should address before going through with it. It tampers with their data, albeit probably not enough to change what their conclusions will be (assuming they have a large enough sample size of internet users, such as what they will get from having a reddit AMA on a popular subreddit), but they should be trying to get as accurate data as they can. They could have waited on displaying the images and starting the timer until the image had fully loaded, and instead have a loading indication on the screen. Image loaded -> put it on the screen -> start the timer. Then it wouldn't have cheated anyone out of time as I felt I was, and would increase the accuracy of their readings. I think it would be good practice for any kind of media that any researchers need to load for their online tests, and then they will have the accuracy they should be striving for.