---
layout: post
title: Update
date: 2017-03-21
---

So, I haven't really been posting here on the regular. I should probably start
doing this so anyone I point here doesn't think I've abandoned everything.
Anyway, here's an update on my life and what's up with it.

Became the treasurer for my fraternity, that's pretty cool. It's actually kind
of a lot of money and kind of overwhelming a bit, especially for someone who
hasn't really done any kind of financial work before now. Good experience
though, and I've been doing well with it so far. Hopefully the rest of my
brothers think I've been doing as good a job as I do. 

But moving on to CS things. I've left the RPI Tours project, I believe it's
just the project lead at this point who's still working on it. Trying to get
the finishing polish on it and push through the final busywork to get it out
there. I've started working on a couple projects of my own, as well as joining
in on a research project at Rensselaer. 

To name one of my projects, which is
publicly available on my Github (although doesn't have much going for it right
now), I've started working on something I'm calling Spoviz. Kind of a dumb
name, the final plan is a website that can play Spotify music through your
account (via the Spotify Web API) and have a realtime visualizer. Right now I'm
thinking of using the MDN Web Audio API for the visualizer, although I might be
looking for different solutions in the future if I can't get it to function the
way I want.

The research I've joined is all about semantic web technologies. Currently
called Graphene (subject to change), it's a nanopublication graph to help
finding articles, papers, etc, and to create bibliographies for them. I've
unfortunately not made much headway myself.

Besides those two things, after revisiting this site, I might end up making
some changes to it. Not sure yet what exactly, but probably change the layout
and the font, etc. Oh! Speaking of web, I'm also the webmaster for the RPI
Players, the theatre group on campus. Mostly been working on back-end things
and trying to make the administrative tools better. Hopefully, if it's not
still me, someone also redesigns the entire site as well. As it is, it's
a little janky. The main problem is that the entire thing has been built, and
then fallen over a bit, and patched up in a new codebase that's attached to the
old one, and again, and maybe again... All in all makes for an awful codebase
that is hard to sift through and edit. I really want to fix that, but time is
an issue for me right now a bit. 

Anyway, there's a long update about what's going on. I've got plans for future
posts as well. There's one thing that I left out from this post that will
hopefully come to fruition before the month is out.
